Date: 2016-01-13 01:01 
Date_range: January - May, 2016
Title: 24 Hour News
Subtitle: 
Sponsor: Sponsored by the Fine Arts Department and The Boston College Libraries
Location: lvl3
Tags: exhibit
Slug: 24-hour-news
Image: 2016/01/24hournews-poster.png
Image_thumb: 2016/01/24hournews-thumb.png
Image_alt: Poster for 24 Hour News exhibit
Active: yes
Style: default

These paintings were made as meditations on war, specifically the war in   Iraq which began in March 2003. The slow, inexorable march to war was   unavoidable.  The White House started to beat the drums, The Congress   debated, and the media related these events in the 24 hours a day news   cycle. It became a toxic diatribe full of manipulation and despair.   Then, the images of torture taking place, in our names, at Abu Ghraib   Prison surfaced, and sickened. The series of Paintings that comprise <em>24 Hour News</em> grew   out of those disclosures.  The terrible arrogance of our leaders seemed   dangerously absurd as they expressed terrifyingly diabolical frivolity   in the face of such cruelty and destruction. When Donald Rumsfeld said,   &quot;stuff happens&quot;, I knew we were doomed to endure the &quot;farce of   arrogance&quot; in its most devastating and destructive power. Thus, the   somewhat unfathomable connection between humor, Eros and violence came   into the paintings <em>What's So Funny?</em>.  The images of the tortured   and humiliated bodies from the Abu Graib prison exposed the horrifying   lack of protection and sanctity for the bodies of the captured and the   victims.  <em>Spine</em>  and <em>Half a Brain</em> express that vulnerability. The <em>Lap</em> paintings   were an exasperated attempt to put the female point of view into the   picture. The Virgin Mary's Lap, which normally holds such love and   tenderness, now holds the wastes of war. With <em>Launch</em> the Virgin's lap turns from gory reds to celestial blue, symbolizing her removal from the carnage below.

