Date: 2018-07-11 01:01
Tags: facpub
Slug: herz-eat
Title: In Why You Eat What You Eat
By: <!--leave blank or add edited, translated, etc -->
Author_firstname: Rachel
Author_lastname: Herz
Author_position: Psychology Department
Second_author:
Second_position:
Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/embed/NHpAoKSuNjU
Sample_pages: 2018/07/herz-book.pdf
ShowSample_pages: yes
Book_location: https://bc-primo.hosted.exlibrisgroup.com/primo-explore/fulldisplay?docid=ALMA-BC21480353500001021&context=L&vid=bclib_new&search_scope=bcl&tab=bcl_only&lang=en_US
ShowBook_location: yes
Bookcover: 2018/07/herz-cover.png
Image_alt: the book cover 
Oneoff: yes

<em>In Why You Eat What You Eat</em>, acclaimed neuroscientist Rachel Herz examines the sensory, psychological, neuroscientific, and physiological factors that influence our eating habits. Herz, who’s been praised for her "ability to cite and explain academic studies in a conversational manner" (Washington Post), uncovers the fascinating and surprising facts that influence food consumption—such as why bringing reusable bags to the grocery store encourages us to buy more treats, how our beliefs can affect how many calories we burn, why TV influences how much we eat, and how what we see and hear changes how food tastes—and reveals useful techniques for improving our experience of food, such as how aromas can help curb cravings and tips on how to resist repeated trips to the buffet table.  Why You Eat What You Eat presents our relationship to food as a complicated recipe, whose ingredients—taste, personality, and emotions—combine to make eating a potent and pleasurable experience. Herz weaves curious findings and compelling facts into a narrative that tackles important questions, revealing how psychology, neurology, and physiology shape our relationship with food, and how food alters the relationship we have with ourselves and each other.

Also by Rachel Herz:
<ul>
    <li>Herz, R. (2007). The scent of desire : Discovering our enigmatic sense of smell. New York: William Morrow.</li>
    <li>Herz, R. (2012). That's disgusting : Unraveling the mysteries of repulsion. New York: W.W. Norton.</li>
 </ul>