Title: GIS Contest winners and awards ceremony
Date: 2017-04-25 01:01 
Tags: news, announcement
Expired: no 
Readmore: yes
Slug:  gis-awards-spring-2017
Summary: It is with great pleasure that the Boston College Libraries announce the winners of the Eighth Annual Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Mapping Contest at Boston College.

It is with great pleasure that the Boston College Libraries announce the winners of the Eighth Annual Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Mapping Contest at Boston College:

<strong>The first place award of a $100 Amazon Gift Card went to:</strong><br />
Samantha Dow, Geology/MCAS, graduate prize: “Mapping channel changes in glacial and legacy sediment reaches of the South River”.<br />
Mary Stack, Geology/MCAS, undergraduate prize: “Farmer's Markets in Massachusetts”.

<strong>The second place award of a $50 Amazon Gift Card, went to:</strong><br />
Shan Shan, Sociology/MCAS, graduate prize: “Inquiring and Visualizing Large-Scale Space: Placing China’s Changing Urban Hierarchy from 1985 to 2010 Into Spatial System”.<br />
Theresa L Rager, Biology/MCAS, undergraduate prize:”Failing Provisions and Failing Hearts: The association between grocery store access and cardiovascular disease”.

<strong>The third place award of a $25 Amazon Gift Card went to:</strong><br />
Rachel Piccolino, Psychology/MCAS, co-winner undergraduate  prize: “Impact of Sexual Education on HPV Vaccination Rates”.<br />
Lesley Lopez, Sociology/MCAS, co-winner undergraduate prize: “Smoking and Stroke Prevalence across the United States”.

Awards were based on map quality, use of GIS as a research tool and originality.  Special consideration was given to topics depicting social implications of the research such as environmental issues. The awards were  presented Wednesday, April 26th, 2017 at 3:00 p.m. in the O’Neill Lobby.  

Past winning posters can be found in the university Institutional Repository, <a href="http://escholarship.bc.edu/" target="_blank">eScholarship@BC</a>, under the category Juried Student Work. The entries of our newest winners will join this distinguished group.  

For more information about GIS data and services at Boston College please contact: Barbara Mento, Data/GIS Librarian or visit our research guide: <a href="http://libguides.bc.edu/gis">Finding Spatial Data for Mapping (GIS)</a>.

<em>Special thanks to the contest judges:</em><br />
Rudolph Hon, Associate Professor, Department of Earth & Environmental Sciences; Constantin Andronache, Research Associate, Research Services, ITS; Enid Karr,  Science Librarian and Barbara Mento, Data/GIS Librarian